Across economic sectors in the Netherlands 69.65 percent of GDP are contributed from a service sector, including tourism and hospitality industries. The demand for short-term stays in Amsterdam has increased significantly over the years, with platforms such as Airbnb offering visitors flexible and sometimes more affordable accommodation options compared to traditional hotels. Airbnb prices, however, are highly dynamic and influenced by a myriad of factors from seasonality, demand fluctuation, local events, and governmental policies. For cities like Amsterdam, where tourism is a strong economic driver, understanding price variation among Airbnb listings is crucial for both hosts and potential tourists. 

The aim of this study is to analyze how the prices of Airbnb in Amsterdam have evolved, and what influences the price fluctuations. The research explores seasonal trends, special events, happening in the Netherlands and in Amsterdam in particular, and how the result of it changes based on different data analysis methods. Hence, the research question is "How do average prices in Amsterdam vary over time, and what factors influence these variations?" Specifically, we aimed to explore the weekend and holiday effects, monthly trends, model performance based on different data types across the period 2015-2025. For our analysis we used two data types: cross-sectional and panel and compared them to see which regression model fits best to our data analyzed using R Studio software.  

The reason for choosing Amsterdam was to see the difference in prices within years and increased demand due to its popularity among international travelers and the evolving short-term rental policy of the city. By examining Airbnb historical pricing data, this research presents findings on pricing trends and patterns, contributing to the overall understanding of how exogenous factors influence the short-term rental market. 

The findings can be useful to various stakeholders, from hosts who wish to optimize their pricing strategy, policymakers who aim to regulate the market efficiently, and guests who wish to make fully informed booking decisions. Ultimately, this study will offer insight into the economic and regulatory dynamics driving the price changes in Amsterdam's Airbnb market and overall price increases due to imperceptible changes such as world crisises (Covid-2019, Russia-Ukraine war, Gaza conflict, inflation etc). 
